Advocating for the Devil
========================

There's a trend I've seen recently where folks will make ridiculous or
offensive arguments, and then say "I'm just playing devil's advocate" as if
that means something.

`Devil's advocacy`_ is not license to make ridiculous, incoherent, and
illogical arguments. Advocating for the devil means take a position opposite
your usual one. You are still bound by all the same rules of debate and logic
to make a coherent point. And if all the arguments you find yourself coming up
with are racist or sexist, the lesson is perhaps that the position has no merit
and there's nothing we can learn from it.

The best devil's advocacy needs no "I'm just playing devil's advocate"
disclaimer, it's simply folks making honest and logical arguments to try to
elucidate the truth. This is one of the most important tools we have at our
disposal to analyze complex and divisive issues. It's actually hard for me to
imagine being able to advocate for the positions I *do* believe without
understanding the opposite side.

Of course, sometimes we find ourselves not just metaphorically advocating for
the devil, but literally advocating for the devils among us. For example, I
regularly find myself defending National Socialist Party of America v. Village
of Skokie, a Supreme Court decision which supported the Nazis right to march in
Skokie (a predominately Jewish Chicago suburb). Why? Because I take the
broadest interpretation of the First Amendment's free speech protections, I
recognize that when the state acts to suppress speech, it almost always does so
against minority interests, and to support already powerful ones.

All this brings me to Andrew "weev" Auernheimer, a computer hacker best known
for exposing AT&T's insecure handling of iPad customers data, he was tried and
convicted under the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act (CFAA) and spent time in
prison before his conviction was ultimately vacated.

He's also now `literally a Nazi`_.

A great many people in the hacking/security/technology community feel compelled
to defend him for some reason, and I can't understand why. I draw a strong line
between government censorship, and individuals freely deciding they want
nothing to do with him.

weev is not on trial for violating the CFAA anymore. Were he, I would point out
that the CFAA is an absurd and overreaching law which ought to be struck down.

He's not though, he's also not on trial for being a Nazi. If he were, I would
be the first one to defend his First Amendment rights to freedom of
association. But again, he's not.

Instead, he's just an asshole on the internet. And so I will exercise my rights
to freely associate, or not, with whom I please. I want nothing to do with him,
I want nothing to do with anyone who wants anything to do with him. He is an
asshole who harasses nice people on the internet for fun, and I have no time
for such people.

.. _`Devil's advocacy`: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Devil's_advocate
.. _`literally a Nazi`: http://gawker.com/ipad-hacker-and-troll-weev-is-now-a-straight-up-white-1641763761
