On whose hands the blood lie
============================

We find ourselves of yet another (named) conflict between Israel and Gaza,
which means large portions of the internet are trying to play the "who's
responsible game". First, I should point out that looking for good guys and bad
guys in a conflict this complex is singularly pointless exercise.

That said, whom do I hold responsible? **Every single individual who has ever
walked away from a negotiating table**.

This is not, as many seem to believe, a month long old conflict, this is a
conflict that has been going on for the entirety of my life. The fact that
every few years there's a much heralded diplomatic effort, and we all make a
big deal about it, and then it fails and all the parties step away from making
any efforts for another few years is a travesty.

I particularly would like to excoriate the United States, which is a master of
making a big deal about "getting more engaged", and then giving up and being
completely unengaged in any sort of negotiations for protracted periods of
time. Further, as the nominal "objective third-party", the United States has
utterly failed at using its influence to keep the negotiating parties at the
table.

Parties who are actually committed to finding a peaceful resolution to this
conflict should not walk away from a diplomatic peace effort under **any**
circumstances, there is no cost to remaining even when hope is bleak, and the
cost of walking away is obvious.

However, as `New Republic's article on the latest peace effort` makes clear,
both sides would like to put a long list of requirements on the other *before
they will even negotiate*. I don't think any action could make it more clear
they are not making peace their highest priority.

.. _`New Republic's article on the latest peace effort`: http://www.newrepublic.com/article/118751/how-israel-palestine-peace-deal-died
