I hope Twitter Goes Away
========================

About seven months ago, I abruptly quit Twitter. Though I'd been thinking about
it for a while, ultimately leaving was a snap decision for me. Lately I've been
reflecting on why I hate Twitter so much.

The obviously uniquely identifying feature of Twitter is the 140 character
limit, but I don't think that's a sufficient explanation for why Twitter is the
way it is. I think Twitter is defined by the fact that it's about broadcast.

Every other social medium I use, is about communities. On Facebook I
participate in the community of folks I know from the real world. On IRC every
channel I'm in is its own community, often corresponding to some larger one,
e.g. the Python community.

Communities are, above all else, defined by membership, the ability for people
to identify as a part of one, and to participate in activities, and share
things and experiences with the group.

Twitter has no mechanisms for this. Every user floats by themselves,
interacting with who they please. This denies us the ability to build
communities, to set social norms, and to enforce them. Twitter has absolutely
no way for me to share with others that someone isn't a person I want in my
communities; unless they do something so bad as to actually get banned from
Twitter (which takes quite a bit of effort! Far more than it does to get kicked
from any of the IRC channels I moderate).

It's because of this, that I think it's not a coincidence that harassment and
abuse are epidemic on Twitter. It's not because Twitter mishandles these
(`though they definitely do`_), it's because a core design tenant of Twitter's
product enables harassment. It's fundamentally impossible to create a safe
space with a public account, at any time anyone can jump in, and no one is
empowered to help moderate it, in fact, most of the time, a harassers Tweet
won't be seen by anyone besides their target.

Twitter's also a phenomenally bad place to have a discussion, and again, not
just because of the 140 character limit. Try following a multi-party
conversation using any of the official clients; it's completely impossible.
Depending on which message you treat as the root, an apparently randomly chosen
of other possible messages will appear, in an inconsistent order. The inability
to have an actual conversation means that when we Tweet, our messages are
really just shouting into the ether, we have no expectation of any real ability
to engage with people and to learn.

Twitter is good for two things: engaging with #Brands, and broadcasting
messages to whoever wants to read them â€” and of course the most widely
broadcast are always jokes.

It's for all these reasons that I hope Twitter genuinely ceases to be. I want a
product that enables me to build and participate in communities, that
encourages discussions and expressing meaningful ideas. Not one that
systemically encourages harassment, abuse, and shouting as loud as you can, and
which on its best day, is a glorified link aggregator. And not a very good
one.

To hell with Twitter.

.. _`though they definitely do`: https://modelviewculture.com/news/blameful-post-mortem-enough-is-enough-of-twitters-inaction
