
Why I support diversity
=======================

:tags: community, diversity, django, programming, python

I get asked from time to time why I care about diversity in the communities I'm
a part of, particularly the Django, Python, and the broader software
development and open source community.

There's a lot of good answers. The simplest one, and the one I imagine just
about everyone can get behind: diverse groups perform better at creative tasks.
A group composed of people from different backgrounds will do better work than
a homogeneous group.

But that's not the main reason I care. I care because anyone who knows how to
read some statistics knows that it's ridiculous that I'm where I am today. I
have a very comfortable job and life, many great friends, and the opportunity
to travel and to spend my time on the things I care about. And that's obscenely
anomalous for a high school dropout like me.

All of that opportunity is because when I showed up to some open source
communities no one cared that I was a high school dropout, they just cared
about the fact that I seemed to be interested, wanted to help, and wanted to
learn. I particularly benefited from the stereotype of white dropouts, which is
considerably more charitable than (for example) the stereotype of African
American dropouts.

Unfortunately, our communities aren't universally welcoming, aren't universally
nice, and aren't universally thoughtful and caring. Not everyone has the same
first experience I did. In particular people who don't look like me, aren't
white males, disproportionately don't have this positive experience. But
everyone ought to. (This is to say nothing of the fact that I had more access
to computers at a younger age then most people.)

That's why I care. Because I benefited from so much, and many aren't able to.

This is why I support the Ada Initiative. I've had the opportunity to see their
work up close twice. Once, as a participant in Ada Camp San Francisco's Allies
Track. And a second time in getting their advice in writing the Code of Conduct
for the Django community. They're doing fantastic work to support more
diversity, and more welcoming communities.

Right now they're raising funds to support their operations for the next year,
if you accord to, I hope you'll donate: http://supportada.org
